---
layout: post
title: "Robots.txt and Humans.txt"
date: 2018-11-15 14:45:00 +0100
categories: blog
author: Mikael Eriksson
---
I will here briefly comment on the usage of robots.txt and humans.txt files. I have never before used these kinds of files so consider this to be comments on the subject from the perspective of a beginner.

## What are they?
First, I will describe the basics of both file types, what they do and why you would use them. If you are already familiar with the concepts, feel free to skip ahead to the next section.

### Robots.txt
A robots.txt file is used by the owner of a website as a way to communicate with Web robots (which are also called Web Wanderers, Crawlers, or Spiders). Web robots travel across the web automatically and are used by search engines to index the content of the web. They can also be used by spammers to collect e-mail addresses or by social media websites such as Facebook, to continuously update their users' feed.

When a Web robot visits a website, it will firstly look for a robots.txt file in order to find instructions. The instructions in this file will tell the robot what it is allowed to look at, by telling the robot what it is *not allowed* to look at. Of course, web robots designed by spammers can simply chose to ignore the robots.txt file, which is why a robots.txt file should not be used as a means to hide information.

### Humans.txt
The humans.txt is a completely voluntary file which is used to tell human visitors a bit about the people behind a website. The standard for humans.txt files is to include role, name, contact, twitter and geolocation of the people that are presented.

## My usage of robots.txt and humans.txt
I have included a robots.txt file in the root of this website. In it, I have simply declared that all robots are allowed to view everything except the folder called 'favicon', like this:
`User-agent: *
Disallow: /favicon/`

I think there are great ways to use the robots.txt file, especially to effect how your websites show up in search engine results.

In the humans.txt file I have some basic information about myself and some information about when this website was last updated, what technologies I have used to create it and so on.

The humans.txt is, in my opinion, a great way for us developers to put our names on websites that we create. Of course, the organization that owns the website would probably not want their web developers name in the footer of their site, so by using humans.txt a developer can still prove that they are the one who created a website.